HRI 2015 Full Papers

Reviews of submission #1576: "Eye-Tracking: a New Look at Human-Robot
Interaction Assessment"

------------------------ Submission 1576, Review 4 ------------------------

Reviewer:           primary

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   This paper builds a general case for the use of eye-tracking in HRI. It
   includes a user study to demonstrate the authors’ claims.

Meta Review

   Strengths:

   All three reviewers agreed that eye-tracking is an important tool for HRI
   research.

   Reviewers saw potential in this work (1, 2).

   The experiment scenario was viewed as somewhat novel (2) and over a
   relatively large population (3).

   Weaknesses:

   All three reviewers expressed serious concern over missing literature,
   which is problematic due to the authors claim that there is sparse
   literature on eye-tracking in HRI (as noted by 3). Two reviewers
   highlighted “exhaustive” as being incorrect (1, 2) and several
   reviewers felt there were incorrect claims about the state of the art in
   eye-tracking (2, 3).

   A reviewer felt the methods were not adequately documented and that
   additional statistical analyses are needed (3). 

   There was concern over the lack of comparison to other techniques within
   the actual study (2).

   Two reviewers expressed concern over the qualitative analyses (1, 3).

   A reviewer also had concerns over some of the interpretations related to
   strong and higher beliefs (1). 

   The reviewers provide clear and useful recommendations on how to improve
   the paper. I agree with two reviewers (1, 2) that this work is probably
   better positioned around the study than just building a general case for
   eye-tracking in HRI. I recommend the authors condense sections 1 and 2
   and reframe the front end as motivation for the study. Moving the goals
   of the study forward in order to better motivate the study is also a good
   suggestion (3).

   Reviewers felt the paper was well written (2) but in need of a polishing
   (3).

   I would like to reinforce R3’s observation that “demented people”
   is a highly inappropriate label. Use “cognitive disability” instead.

   As an aside, figures 1 and 2 may require permissions from the original
   publisher. Since permissions are not usually quick, it is generally
   better to use images that lack copyright restrictions for papers with
   short publication timelines.

Recommendation

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)


------------------------ Submission 1576, Review 1 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   The paper presents an overview of eye-tracking technology, how to use it
   in HRI experiments, its advantages for the field and what has been done
   with this technology so far. It also introduces an HRI experiment in
   which eye-tracking technology was used with a non-anthropomorphic robot. 

Strengths and Weaknesses

   The paper claims to be exhaustive about the eye-tracking technology, yet
   a considerable body of work is missing in their overview. For examples
   please refer to the special issue  "Gaze in human-robot communication" of
   the Interaction Studies Journal and other similar publications. 

   The claim that the paper presents a new look on HRI is too bold.

Soundness

   As mentioned above there are completeness issues with the overview and
   background section of the paper. The paper would greatly benefit from
   being more thorough for example about the definition of joint attention.
   When using terminology from developmental psychology it would be good to
   give some background information.  

   Some of the phrasing on the Interpretation section seems also to be
   problematic. Talking about the "strong beliefs" or "... higher initial
   belief in their cognitive model of the robot ..." when presenting
   quantitative data of the participants is questionable. 

Related Work

   Please see comments in Strength weaknesses and Soundness section. 

Presentation

   It seems the authors tried to squeeze too many things into 8 pages. They
   tried to give an exhaustive overview of eye tracking in the field of HRI,
   present a study and discuss the advantages of eye tracking technology in
   very short terms. This results, from my perspective, in a too short
   discussion of each of the problems. For resubmission it might be better
   to focus on your study in one paper and on the theoretical work in
   another. Saying that, I am not sure whether there has already an overview
   article about eye tracking in HRI been published.   

Suggestions

   In general it is better to avoid phrases like "We will do XY
   exhaustively" if one is not absolutely sure this going to be the case.

Recommendation

   While the work presented in the paper is promising, it does not seem to
   be ready for publication due to major structural weaknesses. Further work
   should focus more on the presented study and should elaborate on its
   details. 

Overall Rating

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)


------------------------ Submission 1576, Review 2 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   4  (Expert)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   Theme "Enabling Methods": The paper presents a method based on
   eye-tracking to assess cognitive mechanisms in HRI. An overview of
   eye-tracking is provided, and an example of HRI experiment is reported.

Strengths and Weaknesses

   Originality: I am not aware of any previous publication of the same
   experiment.

   Novelty: The paper is novel, but the novelty is not very high, especially
   since the focus seems to be on convincing the reader of the benefits of
   eye-tracking in HRI (something that is already established to some extent
   in HRI, and to a large extent in HCI). Furthermore, eye-tracking is not
   compared to any other technique (e.g. think aloud) to demonstrate its
   strength.

   Relevance: The paper is relevant for HRI, since it is directly reporting
   a human-robot interaction experiment, and describes a technique based on
   eye-tracking that is relevant for other researchers in the HRI field.
   Although addressed to some extend by previous publications, eye-tracking
   in HRI is still relevant to investigate in more details.

Soundness

   The paper argues that eye-tracking is a strong tool (which is probably
   true), but without comparing it to any other tool. This is a strong
   limitation of the article.

   Some of the results are based on Figure 9, which has a Pearson's
   correlation of -0.29 (closer to 0 = no correlation than to -1 = perfect
   negative correlation), which is not a clear tendency.

Related Work

   # Eye-tracking as an interaction modality: there is actually more
   prior-work than implied by the article ("only a few attempts"). The
   prior-art covers at least industrial robots, medical robots, ground
   robots, drones:
     * “Moving to the centre”: A gaze-driven remote camera control for
   teleoperation DOI:10.1016/j.intcom.2010.10.003
     * Gaze contingent articulated robot control for robot assisted
   minimally invasive surgery http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/IROS.2008.4651105
     * Remote control of mobile robots through human eye gaze: the design
   and evaluation of an interface doi:10.1117/12.799831
     * Controlling the roomba with gaze http://youtu.be/6O2gYjRymyg
     * Gaze-controlled driving http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1520340.1520671
     * The Use of Gaze to Control Drones
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2578153.2578156
     * Teleoperation through eye gaze (TeleGaze): A multimodal approach
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ROBIO.2009.5420585
     * Gaze-Based Controlling a Vehicle
   https://pure.itu.dk/ws/files/38425416/Gaze_based_controlling_a_vehicle.pdf
     * See also references to, and from, these articles.

   * Furthermore, gaze has also been used extensively as an interaction
   modality with computers, such as for assistive technologies, gaming, etc.
     * http://wiki.cogain.org/index.php/Bibliography_Gaze_Interaction

   * Passive eye-tracking has also been used as an attempt to estimate
   intents in HRI:
     * Investigating joint attention mechanisms through spoken human–robot
   interaction DOI:10.1016/j.cognition.2011.05.005
     * Estimating intent for human-robot interaction (IEEE Int. Conference
   on Advanced Robotics 2003)

   Consequently, the related and prior art should be developed, or at least
   not reduced to "only a few attempts".

Presentation

   The paper is relatively well organized, although the distinction between
   the state of the art and the experiment could be made clearer.

   There are two sub-titles under section 2 (eye-tracking), namely "State of
   Eye Tracking in Human-Robot Interaction" and "Eye Tracking as an
   Interaction Modality" with the same level. The current structure is a bit
   strange, in particular because the content of these two sub-sections seem
   to overlap.  

   The paper is well written, and clearly presented.

   The authors claim to provide some "exhaustive" descriptions, which is not
   the case (details below) and probably difficult anyway in a conference
   article.

Suggestions

   Section 3 (method description): the author write that they provide an
   "exhaustive summary". However, at least one eye-tracking estimation
   technique is missing (EEG - electrooculography). See e.g. "A human-robot
   interface based on electrooculography"
   http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ROBOT.2004.1307158 . And a least two
   eye-tracking setup types are somewhat missing; the first is when the
   eye-tracker is mounted on a mobile screen (e.g. tablet, smartphone) hold
   by the user - see e.g. https://theeyetribe.com/products/ - ; the second
   is when the eye-tracker (and/or sometimes face tracker, depending on the
   needed precision) is mounted onto different targets (e.g. advertising
   screens) and are able to detect when they are being looked at even when
   the user, or multiple users, are moving.

   Section 3 (mobile eye-tracking): the state-of-the-art frequency of
   eye-tracking glasses is at least 60Hz, not 30Hz. See for instance the
   newer version of the SMI glasses used in the article
   http://www.smivision.com/en/gaze-and-eye-tracking-systems/about-smi/news/article.html?tx_ttnews[tt_news]=680&cHash=9b7c844b48f438b83fda8c8a957d00f0

   In section 3.1.2 "mobile eye-tracking setup", the authors could mention
   the possibility of using 3D head-tracking to assess the position an
   attitude of the head of the user, as an alternative or supplement to the
   method described by the authors and involving visual markers.

   Typo page 3, in the "areas of interest" section: "... the screen can
   divided...".

   Typo in the label of the y-axis of Figure 8: "... refecrence..."

   Typo in the intepretation: "Thus eye-tracking provide_..."

   In the interpretation, when saying that eye-tracking provides a strong
   tool, it would be interesting to compare it to any other technique
   (think-aloud for instance).

   In the conclusion, the authors could add that one of the limitations of
   eye-tracking is the fact that it does not register what happens in the
   peripheral vision, which is an important part of the human vision.

Recommendation

   Although the paper has some weaknesses, they can be addressed by making
   the following improvements:
   * Improve the state of the art description (see above comments)
   * Improve the method descriptions (see above comments)
   * Clarify what was known before the study, what was not sufficiently
   covered by previous research, and what the HRI community can learn from
   this work (be more specific than saying that eye-tracking is an
   interesting method for assessing cognitive mechanisms in HRI, which is
   somehow too banal).

Overall Rating

   3  (Overall, I would not argue for or against this paper. I am truly on the fence.)


------------------------ Submission 1576, Review 3 ------------------------

Reviewer:           external

Expertise

   3  (Knowledgeable)

Summary of (Theme-specific) Contributions

   The paper fits well into the theme of “methods”: it presents a method
   for evaluating interactions (namely eye tracking) and provides a
   demonstration, in the form of an experiment, for how this technology
   could be used.

Strengths and Weaknesses

   Strengths:
   - This paper addresses an important tool for HRI research, namely eye
   tracking. It attempts to provide a comprehensive overview of eye tracker
   technology.
   - The paper provides an example of eye tracking in HRI in an experiment
   with a relatively large number of participants (52 people).

   Weaknesses:
   - The paper fails to identify existing research on eye tracking in HRI,
   severely weakening its authority as a review of the state-of-the-art.
   - The design of the HRI experiment is unclear, and the experiment
   doesn’t seem to address any specific research question. The paper does
   not provide hypotheses about how the metrics are expected to change based
   on the experimental conditions. The description of the experiment is
   limited.

Soundness

   There are two parts to this paper: a review of the state-of-the-art in
   eye tracking, and a description of an experiment conducted with a mobile
   eye tracker.

   The Review:
   Aside from the problems of related work mentioned in the Related Work
   section below, the review of eye tracking technology seems incomplete.
   For example, the paper says of stationary eye trackers that “the setup
   needs the heads of the participants to be fixed using a ophthalmologic
   head rest for better data quality.” However, this is not true—-there
   exist stationary (i.e., desk-mounted) eye trackers that allow free head
   movements, such as the SRI Eyelink 1000 Head Free tracker, which achieve
   quite good quality.

   I do not have personal experience with mobile (i.e., head-mounted) eye
   trackers, but I have seen them used without the extensive calibration
   that the authors assert is necessary. I would like to see the authors
   compare their tracker’s accuracy with other head-mounted eye trackers
   that don’t require fiducial markers placed extensively throughout the
   environment.

   The Experiment:
   The experiment is a fairly simple interaction between a user and a robot.
   Why did the authors select this particular experiment design? 

   The experiment seems to be lacking coherent hypotheses and a control
   condition. Though there are three data visualization conditions that
   dictate how the robot’s lights display its sensor information, it’s
   not clear how these conditions relate to the goals of the experiment.
   Furthermore, there are no hypotheses about how the measures will be
   affected by the different conditions.

   The conclusion contains two questions by which the experiment was
   motivated; if these are the goals of the experiment, then they should be
   moved to the beginning of the paper. However, the authors would still
   need to explain how their experiment design addresses these questions,
   because that is unclear.

   There is also information lacking in the experiment description. It is
   not clear in the description of the setup (section 4.1) whether the three
   sensor data visualization conditions were between or within subject
   variables, though further reading suggests that they were between-subject
   variables. This should be made explicitly clear, however. I would also
   like to see additional characterization of the participants and the
   experiment: what were their ages? Did they have normal or
   corrected-to-normal vision with the eye-tracker on? How long did the
   experiment last? What kind of instructions were the participants
   explicitly given at the beginning of the experiment? Did they have
   extrinsic motivation to perform well? 

   In the results section, ANOVAs require post-hoc tests to determine the
   actual differences among the conditions. These should be performed and
   reported, ideally with a Tukey or other correction for multiple
   comparison, before the authors can conclude that one of the conditions
   was significantly different from the other two.

   The paper mentions that participants were asked “How does the robot
   work?” after the two phases of the experiment. However, I did not see
   any analysis performed on these data. What was the (perhaps qualitative)
   result of asking this question?

Related Work

   Given that half of the contribution of this paper is a review of the
   state-of-the-art in eye tracking for interactions, the related work is
   seriously lacking. The authors assert that “the usage of eye-tracking
   methods in HRI is sparse,” but here are just a few citations from the
   HRI community that involve eye tracking. This is not meant to be a
   comprehensive list, but it is meant to illustrate that the authors should
   perform a more thorough review of the HRI literature.

   Chen Yu, Paul Schermerhorn, and Matthias Scheutz. 2012. Adaptive eye gaze
   patterns in interactions with human and artificial agents. ACM Trans.
   Interact. Intell. Syst. 1, 2, Article 13 (January 2012), 25 pages.
   DOI=10.1145/2070719.2070726 http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2070719.2070726

   Broz, F.; Lehmann, H.; Nehaniv, C.L.; Dautenhahn, K., "Mutual gaze,
   personality, and familiarity: Dual eye-tracking during conversation,"
   RO-MAN, 2012 IEEE , vol., no., pp.858,864, 9-13 Sept. 2012
   doi: 10.1109/ROMAN.2012.6343859

   Mark B. Neider, Xin Chen, Christopher A. Dickinson, Susan E. Brennan,
   Gregory J. Zelinsky. 2010. Coordinating spatial referencing using shared
   gaze. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, Volume 17, Issue 5, pp 718-724. DOI:
   10.3758/PBR.17.5.718. (Note: this is virtual agents rather than robotics,
   but still has relevance to HRI)


   In the paper, citation 13 is missing a journal or conference name.

Presentation

   This paper, while clear, is not highly fluent. There are places where
   sentence structure is awkward, and some of the text seems more
   stream-of-consciousness than polished, but in general the paper is still
   comprehensible. 

   The introduction in particular is difficult to understand because it is
   not well organized. For example, in the fourth paragraph of section 1,
   the concept of ecological validity is asserted without explanation,
   followed by a phrase “on the other hand” that seems to equate fMRI
   and eye tracking.

   The subsection heading style varies throughout the paper, with some
   sections using proper numbered subsections and others (like section 2)
   displaying subsection headings with no numberings.

   The paper should also use inline citations instead of referencing a
   numbered citation. So for example, “Eivazi et al. studied the effect
   … [6]” instead of “[6] studied the effect…”

   It is extremely offensive to refer to people with mental disabilities as
   “demented people,” as in section 3.3.1. This must be changed.

   In the results section, please put all graphs at the top of the page. It
   is difficult to find the next block of text when it is interspersed with
   figure captions.

Suggestions

   I suggest the authors thoroughly examine the literature for eye tracking
   in HRI, re-conceptualize their experiment with clear hypotheses that
   relate to their research goals, and re-write the paper for clarity and
   flow.

   More specific suggestions are interspersed in other sections of this
   review.

Recommendation

   This paper discusses eye tracking, a relevant tool for HRI research, and
   illustrates the use of eye tracking technology with a real-world study.
   However, due to incomplete review of the literature and a
   confusingly-designed study, I do not think the paper is ready for
   publication in HRI.

Overall Rating

   2  (Probably reject: I would argue for rejecting this paper.)



